{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf330
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11300\viewh11020\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ebay writeups:\
\
how and why ebay should leverage the social web infrastructure to drive transactions\
\
outdated, out of touch, and in its death throes\
although a large web business (albeit with consistently dropping traffic and revenues) in this 21st century, ebay is by no means a modern internet company (web 2.0, if you will). there are those who may even argue that ebay was there at the very outset of the internet, pre-web 1.0.\
\
while it did well to survive until now, ebays archaic roots are well reflected in the company's current state. a disjointed and non-cohesive amalgamation of ecommerce services and a lack of clear direction make the company seem almost as confused as Yahoo! CEO Jerry Yang (who failed to provide a clear answer to the question "what does yahoo! do?"), or the next generation of users who are both annoyed and befuddled at the sight of ebay's poorly designed (or should i say, not designed at all) homepage.\
\
while ebay experienced phenomenal growth at the outset, and steadily rode a wave of devoted users, it failed to see growing web trends and develop strategies to appeal to the next generation of web users.\
\
when ebay first began the web was a small place. it built a tight, relatively small (relative.) community of buyers and sellers who enjoyed experimenting in a new fad - ecommerce. \
\
however, the web traffic has surged in the past decade. the "people are generally good" philosophy no longer applies on such a large scale. instead, the very principles of the internet that made it so appealing to the previous generation are no longer apparent - the web is no longer safe. as ebay continues to suffer from fraud and bad publicity because of it, it cannot expect to remain a viable ecommerce business.\
\
in addition, its basic business model - ecommerce software and online monetary transactions, are no longer unique. today anyone with the slightest shred of web-saavy can easily set up his/her own portal for transaction. ebay can no longer serve as the portal it once was.\
\
the sheer volume of the internet, the ready availability of open source or cheap software, and an increased ease of use of previously complicated technology has dramatically leveled the playing field.\
\
in other words, ebay is just another contender in the large market of ecommerce. \
\
\
how to survive\
so if the playing field is now level, how can anyone gain the upper hand? well, we analyze existing web trends, what do we see?\
\
the web is now huge. a lot of ideas are old. so how do you make your unique and set yourself apart from your competitors?\
\
lets take a look at a few companies who stood above the rest:\
google (defeated yahoo, metacrawler, alltheweb, altavista, etc.) - of course with the sheer volume of the web, search was the most lucrative business. so how did google win? its just simply better. innovative algs delivering the best results won out. google created value by being innovative and sorting through the sheer volume of the web.\
can ebay do this? yes and no. its not so easy to just innovate suddenly. likely this will be accomplished by some hotshot out of college (much like google was) with fresh ideas and venture capital. but if ebay can deliver the best deals to the consumer, that would create a lot of value. \
\
facebook (now surpassed myspace, friendster, etc.) - facebook won out in two ways - first, it brought order to the chaotic world of online social networking. they realized that everyone was sick of little kiddies running customizing their xanga or myspace or whatever to death and introduced a clean profile that used your real name and kept it private unless you explicitly gave access to people you actually knew by name. it also organized people by networks, first appealing to the college student niche, then later expanding to high schools. but most importantly, identity was real on facebook. it made social networking safe and legit.\
so can ebay do this? again, yes and no. does this go against the ebay philosophy of being an open marketplace where anything goes? as previously stated, times have changed. the current volume of the web makes such openness border on just naivete. amazon has been successful here, bringing order to ecommerce by organizing and authorizing its listings instead of being anything-goes. on the other spectrum, craiglist is the exact opposite. anything goes on craiglist. however, the key difference is that craiglist is not making massive profits off its users and is completely void of responsibility. ebay is now stuck uncomfortably between two extremes. on one hand it wants to be open to all users, but is having trouble being held accountable for all the transactions occurring there (but it needs to be, if its going to be taking a cut of all payments going through paypal). on the other hand it wont give up its roots as a users' marketplace instead of being a warehouse or store listing aggregator, like what amazon does. \
facebook is also successful because it appeals to social niches. on facebook, it doesnt matter to me how many ppl are on it, because i only need to keep in contact with my close friends, a network based largely on location, much like craiglist does. \
\
so what can ebay do? the current trend now is the social web - the web is no longer an open square for total stranger to connect (as was in the day of large bbs-es and IRC channels, AIM chatrooms). the web is now deeply segmented into various social circles and niche interests. ebay needs to serve those interests. \
\
the other successful model on the internet is that of a platform. applications such as twitter, facebook, they provide a communication platform that people are willing to use because they can leverage its technology for its own purposes.\
\
ebay has a good core technology - a well trusted payment system and familiar transaction model. if ebay may gain more commercial success by advertising itself as a platform for aspiring ecommercers to produce their own ecommerce sites, instead of trying to centralize all transactions on their own website. \
\
quickly i also want to touch on the trust issue. as previously stated (i cant believe ive written that for the third time now), the web is segmented into separate social circles and niches. you no longer have the "people are generally good" goodwill with random strangers online. the next generation of web consumers will be hesitant to buy from people they know nothing about, but they have little hesitation buying from people they know or can meet in person (another reason why cl and certain campus specific ecommerce sites can be very successful within their target audience). \
\
also, ebay is really no longer the best place to find good deals anymore. the marketplace is just too chaotic and untrustworthy to try and look for cheap but good quality products. however, blogs such as bensbargains.net, dealsea.com, dealnews.com, slickdeals.net, and DOD sites such as woot.com are immensely popular because they are independently run sites that can be trusted because they dont make a profit by encouraging you to buy products, and they generally link to legitimate online stores that can held accountable for their wares. ebay sellers have no such accountability. \
\
and seriously, you have to admit that ebay is a bit of joke for our generation. we amuse ourselves by posting auctions of iphone boxes selling for $500 on reddit and trying to outwit the scammers. \
\
oh and you should already know that no one really wants to auction anymore. we'd just like to buy for a fixed price, right now, thank you very much. (your "its better when you win it" ad campaign is the most absurd thing ive ever seen - this is the age of convenience and immediacy - who wants to wait and bid for an item they can get for slightly more - or sometimes less on a more trusted site?)\
\
\
lastly, design. theres not much to say. go hire a good design company to do it for you. you could pay them nothing, itd probably be better than whatever you have right now, which looks like it came out of a donkey's ass after its owner stuffed it full of chocolate flavored laxatives. sorry, but the multi-colored logo makes u look like google biters, even if u came up with it first.\
\
honestly, ebay just hasnt been moving forward at all. the sites i visit regularly, they redesign themselves every year, if not more often. ive used ebay for the past 5 years (well, more accurately, my parents have been using ebay for the past 5 years), and other some poorly stitched together acquisitions that dont see eye to eye, there have been minimal changes to the site. }