{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf330
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13180\viewh12160\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ebay suggested feature list:\
\
LEVERAGE SOCIAL WEB\
-implement OpenID, use facebook connect to extract social data about a user\
-connect a user to his friends, allow him to build a trusted network over ebay\
-a user will be more willing to buy from people near him (in the same regional/college network) or people he knows personally, or even friends of friends\
-websites like friendfeed, twitter are very popular because they personalize each users content based on their preferences and connections; ebay needs to offer the same level of personalization when suggesting transactions to a user: what are your friends selling, who in your network is selling, what are your friends buying, whats hot in your network? and beyond: what are you looking for? what are your friends looking for? can you sell them something?\
-user groups: users with common interests can group together and from new networks, new bonds of trust. from there, they can share sellers they know for sure are trustworthy, and at a certain point, build their cred through social interaction and sell to each other.\
\
\
BUILD TRUST\
-on one hand, you want users to sell to other users they know, but the inventory becomes limited? so how do users buy a variety of things from people they trust? well they want to buy from someone they know will be held accountable for the transaction. this is where we create "authorized sellers"\
-aeropostale only wants to promote a certain amount of items on their website, because their real estate is precious. every pixel is a product of marketing. they may have a clearance section, but that doesnt even begin to reflect their real surplus. so how do they get rid of it? let them create an ebay store and list all their items in bulk for a discount price. then, authorize them as a seller, a real company that a buyer can hold accountable for the transaction. stingy people (like me) can get their designer clothes super cheap on ebay, so aeropostale is happy (they got rid of their surplus and made some cash) ebay is happy (you made money off the listing and the transaction) and the buyer is happy (they go their cheap designer clothes).\
-this works for old office supplies, furniture, books, you name it. just let companies create mass listings on ebay. this is similar to ebay as a platform, written below. just that the companies listing on ebay will be held accountable for their transactions through ebay, ebay merely provides them an existing user community to market to and the platform to market to those users\
\
\
EBAY AS A PLATFORM\
-promote the "store" feature, allow people to promote their products and webshops more easily using their ebay store\
-allow more customization of a users store, even to host on their own domain, etc.\
-embeddable flash stores (like youtube) vids that sellers can use to widely promote their products\
-this is extremely lucrative, especially for legitimate business who dont have the know-how, resources, or time to build their own ecommerce site and want a fairly simple solution to sell their wares. imagine if you could have all of neweggs transactions occur on ebay! that would be quite a windfall now wouldnt it. but you dont need to have the next newegg be hosted on ebay, u just need a couple thousand mini-neweggs to use ebay as their ecommerce platform of choice\
-developers: a sign of a healthy website is a strong developer base. develop APIs, open up your website for developers to play with. ebay has such an esoteric user base, everything is aimed at the "powersellers" or "powerusers." there needs to be more developing aimed toward the common users. APIs that allow you to query listings for a search term, latest listing from a user, or group of users, contextual advertising displaying listings from ebay, there are a lot of possibilities, so let developers run with it\
\
BE AMAZON\
-one of the key differences between ebay and amazon is that amazon is always moving forward and willing to innovate. they didnt say "ok, were just an ecommerce company, lets keep it at that." no they said "fuck that shit, we do whatever the hell we want." what came out of that? amazon gave us amazon web services (s3, simpleDB, etc.), mechanical turk, the kindle. dont be afraid to break out of your traditional business model.}